# marc-pipeline
MARC pipeline for quality assessment preparation. The purpose of this project to provide an automatic way to 
convert MARC binary or MARCXML files to JSON files ready to be processed by Apache Spark.
It 

1. transforms binary MARC files to MARCXML (with yaz-marcdump)
1. normalizes the UTF-8 encoding (with uconv), 
1. transforms MARCXML to JSON (with Catmandu) 
1. reformats the JSON files

The final JSON contains one record  per line -- this is the way Apache Spark ingest files. Other differences between Catmandu produced JSON, and the JSON this project produces:

* the order of the components is the same in every records (in Librecat output the order of components is varying)
* the `datafield`'s `subfield` component is always an array of object (in Librecat output it is an object if there is only
one subfield)

## prerequisited softwares

* Catmandu (http://librecat.org/)
* yaz-marcdump ([manual](http://www.indexdata.com/yaz/doc/yaz-marcdump.html), 
[usage examples](http://www.j-gorman.com/blog/2012/4/22/yaz-marcdump-simple-but-powerful-marc-batch-tool.html))
* uconv ([manual](https://linux.die.net/man/1/uconv))

Catmandu requires a special installation, the other two tools are available as standard *nix tools.

## processing single files

1. `one-file-to-json.sh` - convert xml to json with Catmandu
1. `one-json-to-formatted.sh` - change the json format generated by Catmandu with the `formatCatmanduOutput.php` script

## processing multiple files

1. `marc-to-xml.sh` - convert binary MARC files in `marc` directory to XML with `yaz-marcdump`, then split 
the files with `split-xml.php`. Each new file contains maximum 10.000 records.
1. `to-utf8.sh` - convert each XML files in a directory to normal UTF-8 file with the `uconv` tool. The MARC to XML converters
do not deal with the decomposed character. This step is needed if the accented charcters in XML remain decomposed 
(such as an a + ¨ instead of ä). See [Unicode normalization](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unicode_equivalence#Normalization) 
and [Combining and precomposed characters](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unicode_equivalence#Combining_and_precomposed_characters).
1. `split-xml.sh` - splits MARCXML files in `marc` directory and place the new files into `splitted`. The script makes use of with `split-xml.php`. Each new file contains 10.000 records the maximum. If you start with binary MARC you don't have to apply this step because `marc-to-xml.sh` already contains it.
1. `xml-to-json.sh` - convert XML files in `splitted` directory with Catmandu. Moves converted files to `converted` and .json to `json/raw`
1. `format-json.sh` - convert .json files in `json/raw` into a more convenient JSON format. Saves the new files into 
`json/formatted` directory, moves the source file into `json/processed`

## directories

* `marc` - put here the original binary MARC or MARCXML files
* `splitted` - the script puts the splitted XML files here temporary
* `converted` - after JSON conversion the scripts moves here the splitted XML files
* `json/raw` - the place of the Catmandu generated JSON files before format
* `json/processes` - the final place of the Catmandu generated JSON files
* `json/formatted` - the formatted JSON files. This is the end result of the process. If everything went correct, you can delete the content of the other directories.

## running the XML to JSON process with `cron` scheduler

Edit crontab with the 

```
crontab -e
```

command and add the following line:

```
*/1 * * * * cd /to/working/directory && php toJsonLauncher.php >> launch-report.log
```

This script runs the `one-file-to-json.sh` script on each files listed in the `to-json-setlist.txt` file.

## running the JSON formatting process with `cron` scheduler

Edit crontab with the 

```
crontab -e
```

command and add the following line:

```
*/1 * * * * cd /to/working/directory && php toFormattedLauncher.php >> launch-report.log
```

This script runs the `one-json-to-formatted.sh` script on each files listed in the `to-formatted-setlist.txt` file.
